---
layout: post
title: Using Vi Editor
---

<li>3 modes are: Command Mode, Insert Mode & Ex Mode
<br><br>

<h3>Command Mode: Esc </h3>
<li>	Movement Commands:[count] motion<br>
       h --> left<br>
 	j -->Down<br>
	k -->Up<br>
	l -->Right<br>
	w -->One word forward<br>
	b -->One word Back<br>
	^ --> Beginning of line <br>
	$ --> End of line <br>
<br> Move to a specific line number: LineNo. followed by G, Ex. 5G <br>
	gg or 1G -->moves to first line<br>
	G --> move to last line<br>
	CTRL-G  --> to find out line the curso is currently on.
</li>

<br><li>Command Mode  Actions <br>
	cut --> d(delete)<br>
	copy --> y(yank)<br>  
	paste --> p | P (put)<br>

  <br> Format:   <br>
	action [count] motion <br>
	[count] action motion <br>

<br><br>
      <li>Delete: removes indicated text and saves to buffer. <br>
	dd --> Delete current line<br>
	3dd --> Delete next 3 lines <br>
	dw --> Delet the current word <br>
	d3w --> Delete next 3 words <br>
	d4h --> Delete 4 chars. to left <br>
      </li>
      <li> Change: removes indicated text, save to buffer and switch to insert mode <br>
         cc --> Change current line<br>
	cw --> Change current word <br>
	c3w --> Change the next 3 words <br>
	c5h --> Change 5 chars. to the left<br>

       </li>

      <li> Yank : Place content into buffer without deleting it. <br>
		yy --> Yank Current line<br>
  		3yy --> Yank the next 3 lines<br>
		yw --> Yank the current word<br>
		y$ --> Yank to the end of the line<br>
	 </li>

	<li> Put: Place the saved text in buffer before or after the cursor<br>
		p : before the cursor<br>
		P : after<br>
	</li>

	<li>Searching in Vi    <br>
		/ --> start search forward from the cursor position.<br>
                n --> to proceed to next match<br> 
		N --> to go back to previous match<br>
                ? --> start search backwards from cursor position<br> 
         </li>
<br><br>
<h3> Ex Mode: Command Mode + :(char) </h3>
<li>     :w --> write the current file to fs.<br>
	:w filename --> save copy of the current file as filename<br>
	:w! --> Force writing to the file <br>
	:1 --> Go to line number 1(example)<br>
	:e filename --> open filename<br>
	:q --> quit if no change is made<br>
	:q! --> quit without saving changes<br>
</li>
<br><br>
<h3> Insert Mode: used to add text to file.</h3>
<li>     a --> after the curson<br>
     A --> at the end of the line<br>
     i --> right before the cursor<br>
     I --> at the beginning of the line<br>
     o --> on a blank line after the cursor<br>
     O --> on a blank line before the cursor<br>

</li>	


